#  Readme
## Running the project
Prerequisites: Node and Yarn
 1. After cloning the repository, run `yarn install`
 2. Put valid Github credentials in a .env file in the project root (requires a username and a personal access token, they're used to get the emails of the profiles)
 3. Finally run `yarn start` and navigate to http://localhost:1234
## Architecture
I choose the bundler Parcel to not deal with all the configuration of webpack and setting up the hot reloader but I still had to deal with configuring the dependencies like typescript, sass and babel. I usually split the folders by components, the typescript models, the styles and the "api" methods. Also usually I add the folder "pages" to put all the components that represent a single page like the frontpage or Contact us, so it's easier to identify where I need to change something. In this example, I choose to only use components, because it was a simple exercise and adding a router, pages, etc. I thought it might be too much. The main App is the one that holds all the state, for me it was easier to handle the communication like this because all were direct children from App and I wasn't using a router. Perhaps if I were using it, I would have use Redux to share the state through the app.
Regarding the styling, I used this framework: https://milligram.io/, in the past probably I would have used Semantic UI but for this exercise I wanted to try something simple and lean and after a bit of research I found this one and I liked the aesthetics and also the fact that barely requires any structure/classes to apply the styles. I used a single stylesheet for all the component styles, as an improvement,  I could have added a partial for each component to leave it more organized. I'm aware of the StyledComponents library and how to encapsulate the styles for a single component using javascript but for me personally I like having a single style sheet for each component and scoping the styles with [react-css-modules](https://github.com/gajus/react-css-modules)
## Priorities
First of all, I wanted to make a functional "prototype" so that's what I did first, loading and transforming the data I needed, then I moved to building all the components and passing the data downstream while doing small changes to the layout and applying improvements that came to me, like adding a loader to the button while it was making a request, adding the overlay to the image to show also a loader and adding helpful messages in several components, for example in the repository list, if a user doesn't have any repositories it would show a message not just simply leave the table empty.
## Other stuff
For Git I used GitFlow alongside with [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/), I personally for this kind of exercise I would only worked with a single branch but I wanted to test if the "overhead" of creating multiple branches would be too much if only a single person works and actually I liked using it.
